+++
title = "Running OBS Workers and OBS staging instance"
date = "2018-06-06T17:10:12-03:00"
tags = [ "gsoc", "debian" ]
Categories = [ "GSoC", "Debian" ]
+++

This is my third post of my **Google Summer of Code 2018** series. Links for
the previous posts can be found below:

- [Post 1: My Google Summer of Code 2018 project]({{< ref "gsoc2018-1.md" >}})
- [Post 2: Setting up a local OBS development environment]({{< ref "gsoc2018-2.md" >}})

# About the stuck OBS workers

As I mentioned in my last post, OBS workers were hanging on my local
installation. I finally got to the point where the only missing piece of my
local instalation (to have a raw OBS install which can build Debian packages)
was to figure out this issue with the OBS workers.

## The problem

The issue here was that the OBS Download on Demand feature would download the
package dependencies needed to build the Debian packages imported but would
just hang as __scheduled__ forever. This was not an easy issue to debug, since
neither the worker nor the schedulers were throwing any outputs to the logs.

## Debugging

After a while, as I inspected OBS code, I realized that OBS workers run on
_screen_ by default. I noticed that screen was running on my virtual machines
even after I tried to stop the worker deamon. Worse than that, if I'd try to
restart the deamon, multiple worker processes would be spawned, and the builds
would still remain as __scheduled__. I then attached my shell to the screen
session initialized by the OBS worker and found out that the actual OBS worker
exectuable script was not running. The screen session was stuck in a screen
with a __permission denied__ message. But why?

The OBS worker checks out some code and configurations from the OBS server
instance it points to. It then saves the code and configurations under the /run
directory. This path is configurable on the `/etc/default/obsworker` file,
under the `OBS_RUN_DIR` variable. The __permission denied__ message on the
screen session pointed to this file under `/run`. Then, I tried running the
commands specified in the deamon init script, which involved running a script
under `/run`, and got the same permission denied error.

I kept digging deeper and found that on Debian default installations, /var/run
is a symlink to /run, and that it is mounted with the `noexec` flag on. This
means that files under that directory cannot be executed, even if they do have
execution permissions set.

Systemd is the responsible for mounting the `/run` directory, and this is
specified in the binaries to splicitly avoid that users change the way this
directory is mounted.  See
https://freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/APIFileSystems for further
reference.

As pointed in [a
thread](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/InitrdInterface/) in
the freedesktop mailing lists, the /run directory does not have the `noexec`
flag on by default because `initrd` may place executables in that directory so
it can cleanly disassemble the `/` file system. This fact is also reinforced by
one of systemd's [documentation
pages](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/InitrdInterface/)

Now we know that the `/run` directory in Debian is mounted with the `noexec`
flag on by default.

```
athos@debian$ mount | grep '/run'
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,noexec,relatime,size=404932k,mode=755)
```

We also know that this is not the systemd default. I also checked other systems
to make sure files under `/run` would have permission to be executed.

Fedora:
```
athos@fedora$ mount | grep '/run'
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,seclabel,mode=755)
```

Since OBS is developed by OpenSUSE people, having `OBS_RUN_DIR=/run` by default
for OBS workers is not a problem and will not get workers stuck on OBS
installations on OpenSUSE machines. This is not true in Debian though.

Two questions remain:

- Who (what package) is setting the `noexec` flag on the `/run` directory?
- Why?

To answer question 1, I started by looking at the systemd Debian package,
looking for patches that would set the `MS_NOEXEC` flag for the /run partition
on the APIFileSystems code. No patches were found. I had no idea where to go
from there, so I asked the guys on the #debian-systemd IRC channel. Someone
pointed me to the initramfs, and there it was:

```
athos@debian:/usr/share/initramfs-tools$ cat init | grep '/run'
mount -t tmpfs -o "noexec,nosuid,size=10%,mode=0755" tmpfs /run
```

I still cannot answer why this is the Debian way of mounting `/run`, and I
decided that I would stop my investigations here, since I was heading way out
of the scope of my project.

## The solution

We now have 3 possible solutions for the issue:

### Patching upstream

Should OBS set `OBS_RUN_DIR=/run` by default? Maybe that should not be the
default directory for that variable, since it executes code in that path.  To
answer this question, we __must__ understand why Debian sets the `noexec` flag
to the `/run` directory, so we can justify a patch upstream.

### Patching the OBS package

The OBS package should definitely change the default path to the `OBS_RUN_DIR`
directory, since the workers will not run on default Debian installations with
the variable set to it's default value (`/run`).

### Configure OBS workers with salt

Until we do get our changes into the OBS package, we will change the value of
the `OBS_RUN_DIR` variable on the workers configuration file in our salt scripts.
Patches will be available in the next days and links will follow in my next post.

# OBS staging instance

We now have a working instance of OBS running on https://irill8.siege.inria.fr.
I will also set a default Debian unstable Download on Demand project there on
the upcoming days so we can start building our packages against our OBS
instance.

# Next steps (A TODO list to keep on the radar)

- Write patches for the OBS worker issue described in this post
- Configure Debian projects on OBS with salt, not manually
- Change the default builder to perform builds with clang
- Trigger new builds by using the dak/mailing lists messages
- Verify the rake-tasks.sh script idempotency and propose patch to opencollab repository
- Separate salt recipes for workers and server (locally)
- Properly set hostnames (locally)

