+++
title = "Setting up a local OBS development environment"
date = "2018-05-30T15:08:55-03:00"
tags = [ "gsoc", "debian" ]
Categories = [ "GSoC", "Debian" ]
+++

This is my second post of my **Google Summer of Code 2018** series. Links for
the previous posts can be found below:

- [Post 1: My Google Summer of Code 2018 project]({{< ref "gsoc2018-1.md" >}})

# Debian (testing) OBS API package

On the last post, I reported an issue with the OBS API package where the assets
pipeline would trigger an error during compilation. Digging further, I realized
that the problem lies within the fact that the assets group used in the package
Gemfile was removed from Rails 4.

Removing the group from the Gemfile does solve the problem:

```
sed -i 's/^group :assets do$//' /usr/share/obs/api/Gemfile
sed -i '93s/^end$//' /usr/share/obs/api/Gemfile
```

But then, Debian testing has a different version of the Ruby sass gem, which
leads to a different error when compiling the assets for the API. A dirty fix
would be to update the version in the Gemfile.lock before compiling the assets:

```
sed -i 's/sass (3.4.22)/sass (3.4.23)/' /usr/share/obs/api/Gemfile.lock
```

After a few days working on this issue, I realized there is a script in the OBS
API package, provided by the OBS Debian packagers, that:

- Sets the right permissions for the apache (www-data) user on the API files;
- re-generates the Gemfile.lock file, solving the sass issue;
- creates and sets the database;
- runs the assets precompile rake task.

The `/usr/share/obs/api/script/rake-tasks.sh` script does most of the work I
have prepared on my local salt scripts to properly set the API, with one
drawback: is it idempotent?  i.e.: can we safely run the script every time we
provision our nodes keeping the same state on every run? Running the create and
setup rake tasks several times will trigger several warnings. I had solved the
issue (before knowing about the rake-tasks.sh script) by making sure that the
setup task would run only once by using salt grains. The problem of using the
same approach for the rake-tasks.sh script is that if the obs-api package gets
updated, the ownership of the package files will be set back to root and apache
won't be able to serve them, hence, we would need to re-run the related tasks
available in the rake-tasks.sh script.

A possible solution for the issue would be to keep the rake-tasks.sh script
running only once (on the first setup) and replicate the permissions setup
present in the file for whenever the OBS package is upgraded.

My OBS salt configuration repository for local OBS deploy is available
[here](https://github.com/athos-ribeiro/salt-obs).

# Fetching new uploads information

Following up on the last post topic on how to fetch information about new
uploads to the Debian archive, and if I understood the debian package workflow
correctly, __dak__ is the software the FTP masters use to accept packages in
the archive.  Checking [dak's code](https://salsa.debian.org/ftp-team/dak), I
realized dak fires an email to recipients upon package acceptance. One of the
recipients of these emails is the debian-devel-changes mailing list. Hence, it
led me to believe that the shortest path to watching new uploads in the archive
is to simply watch the mailing list. If we consider that email protocols do not
guarantee a message was delivered, we would be accepting some margin of false
negatives, where a package was accepted in the archive and an email was not
fired (of course there would also be the cases where the mailing service
fails).

The [Debian IRC bot](https://github.com/sebastinas/debian-devel-changes-bot),
which announces new archive uploads, just subscribes to the aforementioned
mailing list and announces the upload whenever a new email is received.

When the time comes, we will also watch this mailing list to trigger new Clang
builds in our OBS instance.

# Setting up a default Debian packages builder

I could finally set up a local default Debian packages builder with a fully
functional OBS instance (server, worker, api) by setting the configurations
steps provided by [Héctor Orón
Martínez](https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2016/10/25/open-build-service-in-debian-part-2/)

When using OBS Download on Demand feature, my workers are still getting stuck
at some point (no logs at all; to be debugged).

Next, I will proceed to aid Reshabh and Sylvestre on configuring our OBS
instance at
[opencollab/llvm-slave-salt](https://github.com/opencollab/llvm-slave-salt) And
start customizing a OBS project to build packages with Clang.

# Next steps (A TODO list to keep on the radar)

- Verify the rake-tasks.sh script idempotency and propose patch to opencollab repository
- Solve remaining issue with local OBS worker
- Separate salt recipes for workers and server (locally)
- Properly set hostnames (locally)
- Configure Debian projects on OBS with salt, not manually
- Change the default builder to perform builds with clang
- Trigger new builds by using the dak/mailing lists messages

